[cols="10,90",weight="80%"]
|===
|image:https://www.dropbox.com/s/6holgzml3fv4fbr/obsidian.jpg?raw=1[100,100]
<s|Newcastle F2F Meeting : 12-14 July 2016
|===

== Minutes

Author : Charles Moulliard

Attendees :

|===
a| * Mark Little UK
* Rob Davies - UK
* James Strachan - UK
* Mitch Harpur - US
* Ken Finnigan - US
* Claus Ibsen - EU
* Heiko Braun - EU
* Clement Escoffier  - EU a| * Ioannis - Greece
* Marc Savy - UK
* James Rawlings - UK
* Steph Bacon - US
* Gunnar Morling - EU
* Antoine Sabot-Durand - EU
* John Clingan - US
* Charles Moulliard - EU
|===

Reference:

* https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jyHyIwu1RU-A-nt8P5TQfiedXzuUFsYgfV1G-k5eKzE/[Microservices F2F Meeting Agenda]

== General

The objectives of the F2F meeting as defined within the Meeting agenda (see reference) are :

* Define the aPaaS - the  platform that is going to compete head on with Spring Boot/Netflix OSS  and Cloud Foundry
* Agreement on limited set of approaches to Microservices.
* Common Architecture
* Common Vocabulary when talking about Microservices

== Decisions

* All the attendees have agreed to design/develop the +Obsidian Platform+ as a +Cloud Native Platform+

WARNING: We should measure the impacts/consequences about this decision for the existing customers which are not Cloud Ready or interested to move to the cloud (public, hybrid)

* The mission of the +Microservices Platform+ will be to +++<i class="fa fa-arrow-right"></i>+++ +Continuous Improvement through Containerised Microservices+

* During the face 2 face meetings, we have proposed to create +Working groups+

 - Data - JDV and Event Sourcing - Gunnar
 - Toolkits - Heiko Braun
 - Instrumentation  - Clement Escoffier
 - CI/CD   -  James Rawlings
 - Visualisation - James Strachan
 - Experience (Tooling) - TBD
 - Security - Charles Moulliard

NOTE: These may be collapsed into fewer groups

* The goal of the +working groups+ will be to +investigate+ for the different topics listed hereafter:

 - The components, libraries, frameworks that we will package within the Obsidian Platform
 - How we could deliver / integrate them top of the OpenShift Platform
 - Provide for each practice the infos required to design the platform (patterns, use cases supported, ...)

* Creating a Microservice platform is not enough as we must +educate+ our customers, clients and also +promote+ the Architecture culture specific to Microservices application.
  This is why the delivery of the product should include the following +Educational+ items:

 - Reference Architecture - Patterns/Quickstarts
 - Best Practices
 - Products and product teams
 - Contracts/relationships

* The +product Manager+ has presented +its priorities+ for v1 which are to +productize+: EAP, Swarm & Vertx for Openshift.
  It should also include +++<i class="fa fa-arrow-right"></i>+++ best practices, examples, etc - the type of content that we see during the microservices meetings.

* Here is the +first draft+ of the +product+ definition/scope :

** Need a project Template that:
*** Need src control
*** Build pipeline
*** Test Infrastructure
*** API Management
*** Data
*** Artifact Storage
** The Environment:
*** Release Management
*** Dashboards - feedback loop
*** Orchestration
*** Communication
*** Service Discovery
*** Service Registry
** Education:
*** Toolkits
*** Quickstarts
*** Architectural Guidance

== Next Steps

* +Setup the Working Group+ to gather the required information
* +Clarify+ the question about the +support of SpringBoot+
* +Review the scope+ of the Product including also its project code name
* +Setup the environment/infrastructure+ to communicate
* +Define the stakeholders+ & +launch+ the steering committee

